Can you just give me your full name for the tape?
Sure.
My name is John Dean.
I'm Director of the Department of Preservation and Conservation.
And to tell you a little bit about the department, first of all, we have ten units here, the staff of 35, that are concerned primarily with, well, preservation of all the university library and archive materials.
The units include, obviously, scanning and digitization.
We really began—we really pioneered this technology beginning, latter end of 1989, working in cooperation, the Xerox Corporation.
And were you here at that time too?
Yeah, I started this program in 1985.
This is your baby.
Right.
But we, as I said, we have ten units.
A good many of our staff are concerned with actual conservation treatment, restoring books, manuscripts, and so on.
And our work in Cambodia really is a result of the Southeast Asian programs here at Cornell, which are very strong.
Cornell Southeast Asian book collections are actually the strongest in the world, significantly stronger than
And how did that happen?
They started collecting early.
You know, they're collections that were built to support local programs here at Cornell.
It clearly went through a lot of hard times.
Certainly... You're talking about the country now, of course.
Right.
Incredible corruption under various leaders supported by the United States.
Most recent was Meng Nol, who the Khmer Rouge overthrew.
And of course it went through a very, really awful period of Khmer Rouge occupation of the country.
during which time not only were a great many people destroyed, but there were a great many books and manuscripts destroyed also.
Were these in formal repositories and libraries?
Well, it was a national library.
And that was in Pell-Pen, is that right?
Yeah.
The Guglutek, the Guglutek, the Camborish, as it was called.
There's a number of collections there, the National Library right next to it, the National Archives, the School of Fine Arts, and more modern materials such as the Archives of Tule Sling, which became very important.
Could you spell that?
Tule Sling.
There's an article that I wrote here.
American Archivist.
Oh, great.
And this has a lot of the, this has a lot of numbers in here that you might find useful.
Is there something I could have?
Yes.
Oh.
I made this copy for you.
And there's some nice little sort of photographs in there.
Excellent.
Super.
In fact, I would love copies of just anything that you think is pertinent.
Right.
And not just the Cambodia project, but… Right.
These are some photographs from
Actually, there's a lot of stuff in here also from Vietnam, too, because we've done a lot of work elsewhere.
This is a good example here.
When the Khmer Rouge carrying them, they threw a lot of materials out of the National Library, including a lot of really important political manuscripts.
Many of them were rescued by citizens.
And this is an example of a hawker's palm leaf.
Of course, palm leaf manuscript precisely doesn't sound like.
These are paper that's made from palm leaf.
Well, no, it's actually the palm leaf itself.
It's just a palm leaf cut in strips.
And are they ancient documents?
Some of them are for the second century, some of them are more recent.
The method of preservation
This is true throughout the Southeast Asia, except for Vietnam.
Method of preservation is essentially copying, constant copying for centuries.
And it's rather difficult to tell which of 15th century, which of the 19th century, which of even early 20th century.
But generally, the materials are exactly the same.
The weight of deterioration is dependent as much on
environmental conditions.
It's just aging.
Is this something I can take to it?
Let me see if I can find a copy.
These are what was being done there.
This is work in the actual royal palace of Cambodia.
This is essential for me, actually.
These are Cambodian
Now, is this all this work done under your guidance?
Oh yes, I trained all this work.
So how much time did you spend in Cambodia?
Not a lot of time, about three weeks.
So most of the effort was really directed from here, is that right?
We had to get the money.
We've always done this.
In other words, Cornell doesn't have money for that.
Cornell doesn't have one of its own collections.
It's a matter of writing the proposal, trying to get a foundation to give us money for it.
And the first one, actually, was funded by the Christopher Reynolds Foundation.
And we were able to... Basically, in a three-weeks project, you're really looking at...
21 solid days, no breaks from really very early morning, from 5 a.m.
really up to quite late in the evening because you really have to take advantage of every minute that you're there.
And these people learn just incredibly fast.
Their manual skills, their really excellent innate manual skills because so many more things there are made by hand now than there are in the West.
So we were able to get the program going, provide them with materials and minor equipment, basically chart out the work that needed to be done.
We put in place a graduate student to oversee the project, and then began the task of getting money for microtorming, particularly the two-slank archives.
That's sort of important because when the Khmer Rouge came in, they
took over, it was originally a Catholic high school, and used it as an interrogation center.
And during the period of Khmer Rouge rule, some 35,000 people were killed there.
And they were fairly meticulous.
They kept records, which means very large numbers of records, which... Of these trascends?
Confessions.
Yeah, hundreds of confessions of sometimes hundreds for one person with thousands of confessions all told.
Also, photographs of almost every person we went through.
Wow.
So what we were concerned about was— Those people were all killed, exceptionally.
Oh, yeah.
I think only two people ever came out of there alive.
Yeah, and one of those was a person who had some skill of maintaining the generator, so he was left alive.
Do you have copies of these records, of these confessions here?
We are the only institution that does, because we were able to get... In the world, we're only anywhere.
Yeah, we were able to get money, and it required an incredible amount of tenacity to film those materials, because we got a camera in there, we got a generator in there.
We had great difficulty with getting government permission to film this material.
At that time— American government or Cambodian government?
Cambodian government.
At that time it was called democratic Cambodian.
There were no formal relationships with any Western nation.
This is about when?
This is dated 1990, so it's— That's when this article was written.
The work that we did started in 1988, but the real project started in 1988.
Is a lot of that included in here?
So you discussed a lot of that in this article?
Some of that.
Part of the problem, as I said, at the time when we went there was that democratic Campuchia, the Khmer Rouge had been driven out by the Vietnamese.
In other words, we had the misfortune to be rescued from the Khmer Rouge by the Vietnamese, and the United States and any other Western nations did not have relationships with.
Consequently, it made Cambodia sort of a pariah.
So the only
The only embassies, the only consulates there were East Germany and Russia.
And the only people working there were non-government organizations.
Oxfam, UNICEF was there.
It's the only United Nations organization that's allowed to work in places like that, environmental children with humanitarian efforts.
So it's very, very difficult doing business.
It's very difficult actually getting things out of here, over there, because almost everything that we did, everything, every piece of material that we wanted to send over there was regarded as strategic material by the U.S.
government, by the state of Congress.
It was real hard.
Did you have to clear all of this material?
We sent it in through Singapore.
So you did not run it by...
No.
The, um... Well, this is kind of a paradoxical situation, isn't it?
I mean, the material central to that, there's a lot of this cultural stuff that we're talking about, that is so essential to their own memory of themselves, is up here in Ithac and New York, right?
And not in Cambodia.
Did that strike you as a paradox?
It's not unusual.
Coronel Selections is stronger than a number of national libraries in Southeast Asia.
The reason is that so many have been destroyed, not just through war, but through neglect, through insects, that environment.
In fact, we've had a number of
projects here to microfilm Southeast Asian materials, our own Southeast Asian materials.
And we have automatically, at Cornell's expense, made copies of the film and sent them there in order for them to rebuild their collection.
So we've been sending them materials in their own language in order to begin to rebuild the national bibliography.
This is Cambodia.
In Cambodia and Vietnam, the last... As well.
Yes.
In the case of Cambodia, it was difficult.
The government...
Um, the government was obviously a communist government.
It was, um, well, theoretically a communist government.
It was still fairly heavily, um, staffed by former Khairouge.
There were a number of political reasons why they didn't want us to film the Teusling archives, but yet.
So we had sent them the—we had given them the proposal, had given the Ministry of Education proposal,
to film this material, because the material is very important.
Filming the material here, or filming on this one?
In Teosling.
Okay.
So what material is this that you're going to do?
These are the archives.
Oh, Teosling.
In fact, I think there may be a photograph in here about these archives.
Anyway, so filming the confessions and so forth in Teosling was
difficult because we gave them a proposal to look at.
They didn't disagree with it.
They agreed with it sort of orally, but never gave us written permission to work on it.
So we started anyway.
And that was sort of difficult because we were filming this material, and soldiers would come about every week, and we'd go through this sort of elaborate charade.
What are you doing?
we're filming these materials.
Do you have written permission?
No, we don't.
Well, then you must stop.
Anyway, eventually we did get it filmed.
And we have that film here.
What kind of film?
Max film.
35 millimeter.
So you're taking an exposure of each page that works.
Yeah.
So all of those confessions are here.
Moreover, thanks to some work done by an Australian, David Hawk.
So you've got all of them?
Yeah.
Well, all that there was.
A lot had been destroyed.
It was only fortuitous.
There were about 8,000 actual out of the 35 that were saved.
When the Vietnamese went in there, of course the Khmer Rouge got the hell out, but they tried to destroy as much of this stuff as they could.
The 8,000 confessions are actually— Out of 35,000, there were 8,000 that survived.
copies of those are here.
Right.
The 8,000 were actually stored in another building.
It was sort of an overslaw building.
That's the reason why they survived.
It was just fortuitous when they survived.
So filming that material was probably as important as anything else, because we had a strong influence that there was a good chance that that material might disappear, might just quietly disappear.
Has it?
You don't know?
Not to my knowledge.
But then again, things changed fairly significantly since then.
One thing, the United Nations moved in there to sort of guarantee an election about three years ago.
Who did you have doing photography?
You sent your own people?
You hired people?
It was a graduate student from Cornell who was trained to work with Clear.
stuff to film this material.
Did you send the unexposed film back here?
Did you process it over there?
That was difficult.
No, we couldn't process it over there, and that was really fairly complex.
Generally, when you're filming stuff like this, quality control is very, very difficult, and it's really hard to have high-quality film.
So what was happening was that as a reel was being shot,
Remember, this is a country that has no connections with any other country, with any other Western country.
So when the film was shot, it was taken out in the diplomatic by the International Red Cross to Bangkok.
And then it was airmail here.
We processed it immediately and then inspected the film.
If there was anything wrong with it, then we would fax a message back
to somebody in Bangkok who would give that message to the next person going out to Cambodia.
Was it black and white, color?
Yes, all black and white.
Say again?
All black and white?
Yes, all black and white.
With a flash or a tri-X?
I'm just curious about the light.
Well, with microfilm cameras, basically you have to— Oh, these are microfilm cameras, okay?
Yes.
You have to basically set it up for a controlled lighting.
So you basically have usually four lights on a table.
You have to exclude all other light.
So quality control is really pretty crucial.
You're concerned about resolution.
You're concerned about the amount of light going onto the piece.
And how many units did you have working?
One.
Just one?
Right.
So that took a long time.
It was a lot of work.
But anyway, it got done.
How much time do you think it took to do that project?
It took about three times longer than it should have done because of constant interruptions, but I think all told it must have taken about four years.
Four years?
Yeah.
And what was the scholarly imperative?
What drove Cornell to do this?
Well, there are two reasons.
I think that, first of all, Cornell is the place where this information is on Southeast Asian materials.
If any scholar expects to find this information, he would expect to find it here or now.
But there's also another factor, certainly this is true in the training that we have done.
There truly is a sort of a humanitarian motive as well.
It is important for us to try to help other people.
Moreover,
One of the things that impresses me about area studies, it doesn't matter what part of the world it is, is that scholars, particularly in the United States, their contact, it doesn't matter whether it's Latin America or Asia or anywhere, their contact is with another person.
It's not Cornell and some university someplace else that makes the deals.
It's usually some guy who gets to know somebody there and all of the...
quartered programs sort of flow from that.
So as much as anything else, many of our programs have helped establish those contacts.
Moreover, one of the things that certainly has brought home to me is that preserving these materials is the responsibility of scholarship worldwide.
You can't put walls around what it is you do.
your scholars need access to that material.
And if it's not there, then they can't have access to it.
We're not going to be able to pull out all of these palm leaf manuscripts, nor is it desirable that we do so.
But in order for scholars to understand Southeast Asian culture, we've got to make sure that they preserve, even if it means helping promote programs there.
Now, we've done an awful lot of this over the last several years.
Not just in Cambodia, most recent.
Cambodia is less of a problem now, as a matter of fact.
The most serious problem right now is in Burma.
Because again, you're looking at a priori nation.
You're looking at very important collections, just deteriorating and disappearing at a very fast rate.
Very, very difficult.
Well, there are very few resources for the librarians and archivists in countries like that.
You know, the destruction is—the kind of destruction is primarily the result of not enough resources being put into the collections.
So it's really negligence is more than ballast, would you say?
In countries like that, it's because you're looking at a very harsh environment, very high—
very high temperatures, fluctuating but very high levels of relative humidity, really exacerbate the deterioration of this material.
For some materials, and this is true of some paper, but particularly from these manuscripts, really extreme insect damage.
And really trying to take care of that, trying to make sure that...
The materials are protected from insects, which is basically one of the strategies that we employed in Cambodia.
It was basically creating microenvironments for the materials that were not coming to insects.
It would have been useless saying, well, what we need is an air-conditioned building here.
I mean, there's not even running water at that time in the National Library, let alone air-conditioning.
And in any collection that is used, killing insects doesn't do it, because the insects keep going back.
In fact, a few years ago, a project we were working on in Vietnam, we found that in the National Archives, in one of the National Archives branches in Saigon, about 20% of the collection had been closed off, because it had been bond so many times with different chemicals that staff were getting liver cancer.
And they just sort of locked it up and couldn't get at it.
So, you know, there are very desperate problems in these countries in dealing with things like that.
I mean, there are easy solutions to it, but they need to be trained and they need to be able to put things in place.
Do you sense in these people a passion on their part to try and preserve these things?
Oh, yes.
Well, Cambodia is a good example.
You're looking at a country, and I think there are parallels here.
I understand you're interested in Bosnia in particular.
There are real parallels here.
You had a regime that set out to smash an entire culture, to destroy the culture.
They killed almost all the librarians, almost all the archivists, most of the collections.
In Cambodia?
Yeah.
Really?
Deliberately?
I mean, they were targeted.
Oh, yeah.
All educated people were.
They destroyed many materials in the National Archives, destroyed a lot of the stuff in the National Library.
Anybody that was a teacher, anybody that was educated was basically killed.
So there you've got a society really leveled under those circumstances.
Mindfully, too.
This was the program.
This is what they were doing.
Right.
Under those circumstances, how do you begin to rebuild?
Nothing in your national library, very little national library.
How do you start constructing even textbooks for primary schools?
You don't have any teachers.
How do people learn about history when materials come?
It's very, very difficult.
It's a very effective way of, as I say, destroying a culture.
And I think I allude to that particularly in India, primarily because...
It's quite perceptive in your properties.
That is precisely the angle I'm trying to pursue here.
Right.
You know, I am looking at the books and libraries of the future, but, you know, the future involves me.
I think you look at the last paragraph there.
Okay.
And, Kim, I don't have to read this out loud.
Okay, Rebecca.
Well, in each of the projects that we have done, we really have done a lot.
I've basically been spending an average of about two months out of every year working at Southeast Asia.
Your unit?
Me.
You personally?
Yeah.
In Cambodia, Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, and Burma particularly.
And there are serious problems in those countries.
Now who sets these things up?
I do.
You do?
I get the money for it.
Who are your counterparts?
I contact them because I know them from previous trips.
Basically what I've been trying to do is organize these people.
About three years ago, I was looking for money to try to get these countries to cooperate with one another.
It seemed to me that one of the big problems in many of these countries, and I think it's certainly true, and it's not limited to Southeast Asia.
Part of the problem is in needs assessment, figuring out what it is they need, and then after they've done that, articulating that in terms of an actual program.
Because if you're going to get money, you've got to make some sort of reasonable, persuasive case for getting it.
There are a number of international foundations out there who really...
you know, really not unwilling to support projects.
Toyota Foundation, for example, has been very generous in Southeast Asia.
So some of the things that, one of the things I've been particularly interested in is providing training at the same time, however, trying to bring many of these people to the point where they can articulate what the problems are, try to get the wrong money and try to develop the programs.
So our objective, my objective three years ago in going to, in
in trying to get funding to establish a center was to try to bring them together so that we'd be able to work with us to help solve the wrong problems.
Anyway, I had very little support in the United States, primarily because there was, at that time it was not fashionable to fund Vietnamese institutions and so on, before normalization occurred.
I was encouraged by the Nordic Institute for Research Studies, and I was invited there, gave a little talk, was able to talk to the foreign ministries in Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway.
Actually, the Dutch government came up with some money, and it allowed us to bring all of these people together in account of what we wound up with establishing the Swashen.
to actually establish a center for the whole of Southeast Asia.
The first part of that is a proposal that I've just written to go to the Henry Luce Foundation that will provide an internship program here at Cornell.
So we can take two interns at a time.
Two of them will be technicians basically training people to actually do things, and two of them will be administrators training people how to
how to do the assessment.
Now, when we talk about the headline of the story, The Preservation of Books and Manuscripts in Cambodia, I haven't had chance to read it yet.
But it seems to me that your mission has several objectives.
First of all, to teach these people how to preserve what they have.
But also, it seems to me that you are helping them reseed and replicate the things that they lost.
Is that a fair statement?
To some extent.
First off, it's really important for them to save what they've got, you know, to basically stop any further deterioration.
I mean, in terms of, you know, in terms of access to new technology, I mean, the largest library, and it's a big library in Burma, for example, and Burma has not really gone through the same wars that Vietnam and Cambodia and Paris and those countries have come through.
Things have been relatively stable in terms of wars with other countries concerned.
In the whole of the Central University's libraries there, there are two computers.
Those computers are not talked to anything.
They're basically used to produce catalog cards.
That's not unusual.
I have...
I am not at all hopeful that those libraries will ever, will be wired into the web, for example.
It will be a very, very long time before that happens.
I mean, getting typewriter reverence is a real major event for them.
It's very, very difficult.
Digital technologies are clearly a really important technology.
It's going to provide us with an opportunity to make materials in libraries like Cornell broadly available.
But a large part of the world is really going to be left out.
Even with the Indian subcontinent, most countries in Southeast Asia, with the exception of Thailand, which is technologically streets ahead of anyone else, the chances of those people
Gaining access to materials over the web is very, very slight.
You know, meanwhile we've got to work with what we've got.
We are trying to rebuild our collections, and at some point, clearly— With material from your collections?
Yes.
In what specific areas?
Well, Southeast Asian literature, primarily.
We've done a lot of social science stuff, but primarily Southeast Asian literature.
You know, we filmed about 25,000 books in the United States.
Of their literature?
Yeah.
Which effectively was destroyed in their own country.
Oh, yeah.
It doesn't exist in their own country.
It doesn't exist in their country.
Are there scholars over there who have expressed a need of this material?
Oh, yeah.
And how is it being replicated over there?
You're not making physical copies of it?
Or is it microfilm?
It's film at the present time, and that in itself is a little cumbersome.
One of the possible benefits of digital technology, and I don't look at an opportunity to see it.
You'll get that tomorrow.
I can't believe so.
One of the advantages in digital imaging technology, which is basically what we're doing here, is the fact that
You capture something, and having captured it, you have created a set of images that you can do a lot with.
It's very flexible.
Clearly, you can make those images available over the web and various other ways.
More importantly, and I think this is perhaps where digital technology can have a real impact in South East Asia, more importantly, you can replicate a printed volume
very very very very well at very high speed and at very low cost the Ducutech printer prints at the rate of 139 pages a minute and produces very very high quality facsimiles it seems to me that that it's as I said it's probably unrealistic to look at digital the electronic library in terms of those people receiving images
But the ability to reproduce books from those images is, I think, very powerful.
Moreover, obviously, we can produce them on very high-quality paper.
And the nice thing about digital technology is that because it is digital technology, there's no generational problem.
In other words, the millionth copy isn't a bit as good as the first copy because it's either a zero or a one.
So I think that the real impact of digital technology on third world countries may well be in the production of printed copies.
From digital?
From digital images, yeah.
It's either a zero or a one.
Right.
Anne is the associate director of this program here at Cornell, our program.
And she basically is really one of the
one of the most knowledgeable people in the world on digital technology.
She's actually had an international committee on digital imaging for Apple materials.
I think it's actually tomorrow morning.
Yes, committee is tomorrow morning.
So it is a very happy circumstance, isn't it, that you have this confluence of situations where I remember when Cornell has all this material.
Right.
And number two, you are the leader, apparently, in this technology.
And it seems that you couldn't do, obviously, you couldn't do one without the other.
Right.
Yeah.
And the other thing, too, is that, you know, it's like preserving collections here at Cornell.
There is no one solution.
We have to take a very broad approach to that.
You know, people actually use materials, and, you know, they're actually taking books out of the library bringing them back again.
There's a lot of artifactual value in a lot of the materials that we deal with.
Moreover, you know, you're looking at in this library alone, and it's only the tenth largest library in the United States.
This library, yeah?
Yeah.
You say only the tenth?
Yeah, it's only the tenth largest in the country.
Only?
Yeah, but this library has around 7 million books, 70 million manuscripts.
Now, under those circumstances, you know, this picture that people have of all these resources suddenly being out there, um, unavailable over the web, at least clearly it's extremely unrealistic.
And we've been working at this for a long time now.
You know, it's the nearest fraction of the collections that we have available over the networks.
So somebody clearly, obviously, then is making a selection of things.
Who's doing the prioritizations?
Well, right now, all of the work that we do is grant-funded.
Everything that we do, we have to get money to do.
The university doesn't have money for us to do it, which means that most of the work that we've done has been done in the name of reception development.
We basically have taken groups of materials to demonstrate the effectiveness of the technology, except for about six months ago when we began with support from the Mellon Foundation, the Making of America project.
That's extremely important because most American historical material was produced during the period of the worst paper.
Really bad paper began to be produced
Oh, from about the end of the Civil War, which is basically when they discovered how to produce mechanical wood pulp.
So, you know, the really crucial documents in American history date from after that time, most of them.
Certainly most of them really wonderful publications.
The history, for example, the history of the rebellion, which is a really important set, runs to about 150 volumes.
Papers are so brittle that you turn the page and fall in bits.
So...
What we have is a support from the Mellon Foundation to work with the University of Michigan to begin the process of digitizing all of that material.
Now, we automatically, when we digitize that stuff, make a new copy for our own collections.
At the same time, getting this stuff out.
A hard copy.
Yeah.
Well, you've got a digital copy, but in addition to a digital copy, you'll make a paper copy.
Right, right.
The paper copy is just a by-product of the digital image.
But, you know, we're getting all these things out there.
It's not to use the opportunity to make a paper copy.
Right, right.
Because we're actually replacing the Briffle book with one that's, in some cases, looks better, because when the paper begins to deteriorate, it tends to go darker.
So what we're doing is producing a much crisper, fresher-looking book than the original.
And these are copies that you own here?
Yeah.
And so are you preserving the pages as you go along as well, and deacidifying them?
No.
Twin amounts.
So—I'm sorry, what?
We're twinning them out.
So once they're shot, they're gone.
Right.
Unless they're—well, I mean, most of this stuff is—I mean, it's not—you know, you've not got them doing Bibles, these things.
There are some things, however, that do have fine illustrations, and in many cases the illustrations, because of the production process, is on a different paper than the text.
So frequently they are able to save the original illustration and transfer them into a new text.
We've done that on a couple of occasions where it's been a very fine engraving or a colored illustration, for example.
You've been able to save the original illustration.
Of course, you can't get that over the web.
What you see is the illustration in a bitonal image.
So, 7 million books and 70 million manuscript pages.
And that's not all on campus, isn't it?
There must be a book.
Oh, yeah.
So it's not an off-site facility.
Yeah, there is one off-site facility.
It's about two miles off campus.
It's actually in the orchards here.
And that's got about a million volumes in it.
We're actually in the process of planning, they built within a year another annex facility.
I've been to the Harvard one, which is one of the modules out there.
Ours actually have been very similar to the new one, but very similar to the Harvard one.
The Harvard Depository, which is huge.
Yeah, very similar to that.
Forklifts and everything is barcoded.
There are even other titles.
The new one that we will have will be almost exactly like that.
The old one that we have is like a conventional library.
Everything's crammed in.
We also have a fairly large conservation facility up there.
That's our paper conservation facility.
With that facility we are concerned with graphic materials.
Those are non-book materials such as photographs, works about on paper,
maps, some flat manuscripts, things like that.
Our conservation facilities here, in this building, are concerned primarily with books.
What would you consider some of your more dramatic missions in Southeast Asia?
If you could think specifically of some items where you mentioned those palm— Palmies, right.
I don't think any it's difficult to think of any of any particular individual title because what we'd be concerned with as much as I think of this process it's it's working with the collections working with the people um showing them more than more than more important more important than anything else showing them that it's doable um showing them that it is possible to use local materials to convert local materials um to um
to the service of conservation.
But, you know, you don't have to be paralyzed.
You really can do it.
And, you know, generally, they're really wonderful people.
Truly wonderful people.
Do you feel sometimes that you're in a race against time or is there an urgency?
Oh, sure.
But that's true in the United States, too, you know.
I mean, stuff's disappearing at a fairly rapid rate.
Any materials that you have, by the way, that I can have copies of, you can help me.
I love background material.
I'm crazy.
That's from the encyclopedia.
Oh, that's important.
Okay.
Yeah.
This is the offering for me.
It has a nice colour.
Those are my little fat hands with brittle paper.
That's this article that I have here, right?
Yeah, you can keep that.
Thank you.
The reason why that's useful, this one, is because it sort of gives a little bit of background about, you know, what the causes it to do.
But there really is.
And it was you saying that, race against time, that made me think of it.
Because that particular illustration is,
is designed to show that.
This is the Britannica.
So the work you do here at Cornell is probably among the most accomplished, I would say.
It's state-of-the-art Time magazine.
Yeah, there's another, there's something in here, I just remembered.
There's actually an article coming out in
In Libya, this is an international library journal in Zoom that describes some of the projects in Southeast Asia.
I was looking for sort of a list of them.
I couldn't point it.
And I realized that this is my resume that I use for grants here, that the real list of the programs that we have done
is actually listed here.
Is that something I can have?
Yeah, this is just—I pulled this off the computer now, because I was actually looking for something that would list the stuff here.
I'd love to have that.
I'll need that at some point anyway.
Right, okay.
Because this thing here, I say, sort of lists the things here.
Great, I see it.
So that might be useful.
All these writers who believe everything is useful.
Right.
Oh, I know.
Just to be able to put some numbers in sometimes, that's all the difference.
So, tell me a little bit, I'm sure I'll get it here, your background.
Is it in library work or is it in preservation?
Tell me how you got to do this.
Get into this?
Yeah.
What time is our next gig, by the way?
I got a—I went a scholarship to the Royal College of Art when I was 10, and I was there until I was 15.
And then at 15 I started my apprenticeship in book conservation, a six-year apprenticeship.
And then I went to work at the Manchester Central Research Library.
And then—
I got myself a degree in management while I was working there.
Then in 4066, I ran into a fellow who, from the United States, who wanted me to come over here.
I did.
I came over here as a consultant in Newbury Library in Chicago in 1960, and went to work with her for five years.
Basically, again, training people.
Let's try to establish a program.
Because we really know training in the United States in book conservation.
All our conservatives here, for example, all trained abroad, which is a real pity.
And then after five years at the Newbury, I went to Johns Hopkins University, where I started a five-year apprenticeship program there, which weren't really that well.
So I was there for 10 years when I came here.
I'd been here for 11 years.
Do you have a passion for books at all?
A bibliophilic passion in any way?
Yes, some books.
Some books, yes.
So I enjoy working with them.
You see, as I said before, it's important that we move forward on a whole number of fronts.
And for some materials, and this is true for materials generally published before 1850,
It isn't just the textual information that's valuable to a scholar.
The way the book is printed, the paper on which it's printed, the way it's bound, the materials used in its binding, the decoration of the binding, that's all information too.
And so we put a great deal of effort into restoring materials to their original format so that scholars can use that information in their research.
And clearly,
That's stuff that can't be replicated.
We can replicate the, you know, the textual information, but we can't replicate the physical evidence.
Which, of course, is the whole essence of what digital, you know, what scanning does.
It does replicate the information, but as a rule, I mean, although you do say that you can make precise cards in some instances.
And for a lot of purposes, that's enough.
Sure.
I'll give you an example.
When we began working on the Making of America project, we started with that very big set, as I mentioned, The History of the Rebellion, which is a real classic piece about the Civil War in the United States.
But not a lot of libraries had that.
It was a very expensive set to buy, and it's one that's in really quite poor condition.
I think it's out of copyright.
We didn't realize how this was being used.
And during the last summer, we had a number of scholars from other institutions, in some case from another country, who had come to Cornell specifically to use that set.
And they were complaining that we had pulled it off the shelf in order to digitize it.
Otherwise, we wouldn't have known.
But you see how powerful that is now.
And basically, what we said to them,
You know, we're sorry we've pulled this and we'll try to work around it with you.
But, you know, you're not going to have to come to Cornell again to use this.
You know, that really sort of brings it home to that kind of material.
So how do you stand on this whole discussion of books and libraries of the future?
I mean, do you see the printed text slowly disappearing from
I think we will be able to do a lot of research that we can't do now.
I think that we're going to be able to save a lot of time.
We're going to be able to put together a lot of information.
Obviously, this stuff's got to be up there for people to get to it.
But I see a time where a person sitting in front of a computer...
The communication is, you know, basically between yourself and the computer.
And I don't know, let's say you're doing biographical research on somebody like, I don't know, some person.
You're going to be able to pull up documents from, I don't know, the Illinois State Library.
Look at manuscript materials about Lincoln.
You're going to be able to pull Civil War documents out.
You're going to be able to pull pieces of popular books up.
You're going to be able to do all of that.
And you don't know and you don't care where these things are.
And there's correspondence, which could be everywhere.
Yeah.
So, I mean, you see, you know, the stuff from, some of it could be from Illinois, some of it could be from Virginia, some of it could be from some other country.
But it doesn't matter because your communication is that thing free away from you.
I think that's the power of the technology, that it allows you to pull that material together and to use it in a way that you couldn't really do that before.
You could always do that, but you'd have to travel around a great deal.
The problem, however, and this is going to be this way for a very long time, unfortunately, is that not everything's going to be there.
Actually, you're saying none of it's going to be there?
Not all of it's going to be there.
You know, I teach at Syracuse University in a library school, and one of the students had done really quite a good research paper for me.
And I talked it over with this young woman, and I said, you know, it's a really good paper, but you missed a couple of really quite important sources here that you really should look at.
And she looked at me, she said, well, they weren't on the database.
And I think that's going to be a real problem.
that there is sort of a critical mass.
You reach a point where you begin to leave traditional print behind and move onto a computer, and you're not going to get everything.
We see that with catalogs, by the way.
Oh, I absolutely believe that.
I mean, when I'm doing my research, I do like Picard catalogs, because it is very scientific.
It does allow you to discover things, which is why I like to browse the stacks.
So more often than not,
You know, the item that's right next to the one you're looking for is far more fascinating than one you wanted to get.
Yeah, and that's why we put all the money into subject applications.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, but, you know, the thing that's interesting is that with library collections, again, it's sort of this balance here.
At what point, when bibliographic records are being converted to machine-readable form, at what point do people not use a catalog?
Is it when 60% of the collection's been converted or 70%?
At some point, and we'll see this with students, graduate students, and faculty, at some point, they make that leap where they begin to, I'm sure they don't consciously believe that, that what's in the computer is what there is.
And they're missing a hell of a lot, obviously.
I hope that's not the case, yeah.
Yeah, but you know what I mean?
It's, and I, I,
The sort of image is the sort of somebody doing research on Abraham Lincoln.
What's available may well channel what's published.
Not only what's published, but the scope of the research.
Right.
The quality of the research.
Absolutely.
Will be pretty much determined by what somebody decided was good enough to be scanned and what wasn't.
You know, without making a deal.
And that's what I'm concerned about, is that certain decisions, scholarly decisions, are being made by the person who holds the scanning plates.
Right.
So, I mean, it really needs common sense.
I mean, you know, somebody at some point is going to say, well, you know, I'll get some valuable information, and this is one source of getting that information.
And I think that that's the proper role for digital technology is, from our standpoint, from a preservation standpoint, it's a tremendously important and powerful tool in preserving collections and making them accessible.
But it's not the only tool.
Because, for example, we have, as I said, very large numbers of manuscripts here.
Even if a manuscript were available over the web, it in no way validates the original manuscript because people interested in provenance.
People interested in seeing that original manuscript.
I was involved in a conference in September in England and the other conference was digitization and preservation.
Many of the projects in
in Britain, and this was in England and stuff.
The other projects in Britain are actually CD projects.
And they basically take very classic texts like Beowulf, for example.
That wonderful copy of Beowulf in the British Library.
Which I write about in my book.
Right.
The Cotton.
Right, that's right.
It exists solely because of a book collector.
Right.
Robert Cotton saved Beowulf.
That's right.
And there it is.
And I think
Well, it's a very good, fairly high-cost project, but it creates a CD of Bill Wolf, and the quality is very, very high.
Now, the reason for the CD is to provide people—to provide broader access to the manuscript without actually handling the manuscript.
Well, I don't think they allow you to handle that script.
Right.
Oh, yeah.
It's in the case.
If you make a good enough case, you could.
Their argument is that by providing that image surrogate, it will allow the original to last significantly longer.
No one anywhere is suggesting that that will ever be first the original.
And I think that that probably applies to the vast majority of materials that we have in rare books and manuscripts.
I don't know whether Mark took them in the vault or not.
He did, yeah.
He did.
It's quite a less spectacular thing.
I mean, you look at our French Revolution.
We've basically just completed our preservation project on French Revolution.
French Revolution collection here is not just about the Revolution.
It is about the Revolution, but it's all materials published
within the period of the revolution.
It consists of about 45,000 books, 20,000 manuscripts, but it also includes all of Lafayette's manuscripts, all of his personal collections, all of Lafayette's manuscripts, all of his personal collections, and so on.
I mean, even if that stuff were available digitally, it does not make the collections any less important.
So I don't think, I don't
I don't think it would change the use of that material.
No, and I can't imagine that it would.
Now, you mentioned the Beowulf, but is that available on a CD-ROM now?
Yeah.
See, I was on a quibus last year.
There are a number of things you do.
One of the things we're very strong on here, for example, is we're very strong on natural history, particularly on anthology.
And one of the great bird illustrators, Louis Fuertes, was a faculty member here.
So one of the things that we digitized was Fuertes' journal and all his paintings.
I mean, very wonderful paintings.
Now this is under your direction here?
No, this was using photo CD technology in special collections and rare books here.
Well, manuscripts and archives, actually.
So here you've got the man's journal, the early part of the century.
Many remote countries of the world, particularly Asia Minor and so on.
So if you want, you can get a map of the world up, and you can see a line showing where he went.
You can click anywhere on that line, and it will immediately show you the relevant page in his journal.
We've got that here?
Yeah.
I can see this at some point probably tomorrow, though.
On the page of that journal, if you see the name of a bird, you can click on that.
You will immediately see his painting of that bird.
Moreover, because of the Library of Natural Sound, you can click and you get the actual bird call of that bird.
You can also click and see illustrations of that same bird by other artists like Audubon, Wilson, Gould.
So a book is never going to do that.
Well, you can do it, but it's more cumbersome, and you've got to have the book to do it.
And, you know, very few people have autobons because you're looking at $50,000 a print.
It's amazing.
So, I mean, that's a really powerful teaching tool.
And it's a very useful way to use the technology, a very useful way to navigate through complex documents.
The nice thing about, incidentally, about doing by-told imaging of books and monographs here is that the book itself is a fairly well-ordered instrument.
So basically, if you get to a book title and you go look at the title page and the table of contents and then move electronically to the index and browse the index and find out that the thing that you want is on that index, click on that index in exactly the same way you would if you were
turning from the index to a page and get that same image up.
I mean, that's the nice... I mean, this is essentially what we're able to do using books.
If we're doing things like periodicals, and certainly popular periodicals like Scientific American, for example, which we're doing now as part of Making America, the early 19th century ones, we're really having to create some fairly complex indexes so that people can navigate that stuff.
But, um, ordering this material, organizing it, um, requires an immense amount of effort, otherwise you're going to have a whole bunch of random images out there that people can't.
Yeah, it really has to—it can't be haphazard.
It has to—I know when San Francisco Library moved, uh, um, they took the opportunity to cull a lot of stuff, you know, which—which got a hell of a lot of hot water out there, you know.
But it does give you an opportunity to really organize, I guess, in moving and digitizing.
But it seems to me that Cornell has a pretty—strikes a pretty good balance.
I mean, you go to Stanford University, where they are really a wired program, you know.
I mean, everything seems to be computer-oriented out there.
Well, it is here to such an extent.
Stanford do have a conservation operation.
It's a fairly modest one.
I think the major difference between what's going on at Stanford and what's going on here is that everything here has always been within the Department of Preservation.
We like that because it really allows us to integrate the technology into what it is we're doing.
Maybe you could just explain that a little bit.
You say it's within the department of preservation.
Well, one of the problems with digital technology, when you start making images, particularly of printed books available, you're really clearly running into potential copyright problems.
Now, if you look at the stuff that we're preserving, for the most part, we're preserving materials that are out of copyright.
So it's a comfortable match.
These guys are preserving books because they're deteriorated.
They're deteriorated in many cases because they're old.
If they're all around a copyright, why not use digital imaging technology?